SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON THE DATA AND THE VARIABLES

DATA
The European Income and Living Conditions Survey collects information about income, poverty, social inclusion and living conditions in the European Union. 
In the analysis we used the cross-sectional sample from the year 2021 that included the ad-hoc subject module ‘Living arrangements and conditions of children in separated and blended families’. 

ACCESSING THE DATA
Access to the EU-SILC microdata is provided by Eurostat for scientific purposes. 
Access to the microdata may be thus granted only for research organizations recognized as research entities.
Researchers in research entities recognized by Eurostat may request microdata access by submitting one or more research proposals to Eurostat.
Find more information about accessing the microdata data from the Eurostat's EU-SILC website: https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/microdata/european-union-statistics-on-income-and-living-conditions

SAMPLE
Sample included 9,102 children aged 0–17 years old who were members of the sample household but had a parent living outside of the household at the time of the interview.
Analysis included the following 17 European countries: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Spain, Finland, France, Croatia, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Romania, Sweden and Slovenia.


VARIABLES

Physical custody
EU-SILC variable code: RK070 “Number of nights per month the child spends in the household (average)”
The variable collects information on how often the child spends the night in the surveyed household on average in a typical month. In the data the variable is coded as a continuous variable with values ranging from 0–31 nights. 
In the analysis, the variable was transformed to a categorical variable to represent the quality of the physical custody situation. The analysis includes the following categorization:
1) sole physical custody (0 to 9 nights with the parent residing outside of the household) 
2) unequal joint physical custody (10 to 14 nights or 16 to 20 nights with the parent residing outside of the household) 
3) equal joint physical custody (15 nights with both parents)

Age
EU-SILC variable code: RX010 “Age at the date of the interview”
In the analysis we included children who were aged 0–17 years old at the time of the interview. We investigated the physical custody arrangements of the following age groups: 0–5, 6–10, 11–15 and 16–17 years old.

WEIGHTING
In the paper we produced weighted descriptive statistics (and unweighted frequencies). We used the weight variable RB050 that is the personal cross-sectional weight for all household members of all ages provided by Eurostat. The weight variable can be used to make inferences about individual demographic variables in the R-file of all individuals residing in private households.
Learn more about the construction of weights from the “Methodological guidelines” document chapter 8 available here: https://circabc.europa.eu/sd/a/f8853fb3-58b3-43ce-b4c6-a81fe68f2e50/Methodological%20guidelines%202021%20operation%20v4%2009.12.2020.pdf
